# Network-Design-For-School
ABSTRACT:

Designing a network architecture has always been a challenging topic and an active research area. The network has to be analyzed for it to be consistent and reliable. The network design proposal is made to accommodate the requirements for school network design. The project is focused on WLANs and associated wireless technology. Hence, further to wireless technology, the guide also delves into security issues. The network and devices provided by the management have firewall and security software installed in it. The hardware and tools used for the project are Router, Switch, Desktop, Broadband MODEM / Wireless Router, Ethernet cable, Cisco Packet Tracer to create a prototype for the proposal. This project will result in understanding how an organization operates its network architecture, how it administers and maintains the security of the network and what are the challenges faced while architecting the network. A prototype was built which simulates the build and function of the network using virtual tools. This project is to design a suitable network system for schools in developing countries. The aim was to design a network with high security and low cost. This project will help to enhanced education of developing countries. The advantages of networking can be seen clearly in terms of efficiency, security, manageability and cost as it allows collaboration between users in a wide area. To improve college campus network design, the technology used was creating LAN, WLAN and using cheap device to reduce cost of the network. But the network can also become better using routing protocols and other protocol. So, we are going to use such protocols using less number of devices and will also maintain the cost of the network less. To design such network, we are going to use software Cisco-Packet Tracer.

INTRODUCTION:

Networking is referred as connecting computers electronically for the purpose of sharing information. Resources such as a file, applications, printers & software are some common information shared in a networking. The advantages of networking can be seen clearly in terms of security, efficiency, manageability & and cost effectiveness as in allows collaboration between users in a wide range. The Switches and Router this device that play an important role in data transfer from one place to another using different technology such as a radio waves & wire.
